Hello English learners welcome back to English pod my name is Marco and I'm
Erica and today we're bringing you another great lesson about sports part of our
sports series that's right and in this lesson we are talking about maybe the world's
most favorite sports right one of the most popular sports in the world soccer
or also known as football in other countries yes okay so before we get started with
this great lesson let's take a look at some of the words we'll find in the dialogue
in vocabulary preview very vocabulary preview we're going to look at three words here the
first word is wingman wingman a wingman now wingman isn't really related to soccer
in any way okay but it's a way of referring to somebody as your right hand so your helper
your helper your your number one guy okay right so a wingman is someone who helps you a lot
exactly okay our next word tied tied they are tied they are tied now this is an
interesting word because tie can be a noun verb and an adjective right exactly so in this case
they are tied it's an adjective meaning they have the same score okay and a tie is a game
that has ended with no winner or loser both of them have the same score exactly and so obviously
the verb two tie is to reach the same score as your other team exactly all right well our third
word can also be used as a noun and a verb and it is foul fouled fouled okay so two foul
somebody is to do something to them that is not allowed in the sport okay and so when you do this
you have committed a foul exactly okay so use it in the same way to foul or a foul
interesting well we're going to hear these three words in context now so why don't we listen
to our soccer dialogue
welcome back soccer fans my name is Rick Fields and as always I am joined by my
commentating weekman Bob Copeland and we are in the break of soccer history today as Ecuador and
Brazil are tied one one as we begin the second half of the 2022 world cup the ref calls the players
for the kickoff and here we go Ecuador quickly passes the ball to the midfield but oh it's out of
bow that will be a throw in for Brazil I do kind of know how to the ball and makes a long past of a
wieniel and the ref is called the mob side no question about it he was off side by a mile we have
a goal kick record or medicine menders heads of turbulence he shoots deflected by the defender
and we have a corner kick then Gallo takes the corner we have a foul oh no D to the goalkeeper has
foul the Ecuador in player he gets a yellow card and that will be a penalty kick this is the
perfect opportunity for Ecuador to get ahead in this match and become world champions he gets ready
for the kick he shoots and he
okay so Ecuador tied with Brazil in the 2022 world cup wow Marko I'm really happy to see that you are
able to see so far into the future well I called it so in 2022 if we do win the world cup
you know who said it first all right you have money on that oh yes all right so apart from this we
saw some really great vocabulary in this lesson so let's take a look at it now in language take away
language take away all right you've got a lot of soccer words for you but they're all important
so let's take a look at the first one kickoff kickoff kickoff so a kickoff this is how you start
a soccer game right so it's the very beginning the referee blows the whistle and you kick the
ball to another player that's the kickoff okay so our next phrase out of bounds out of bounds
out of bounds okay out of bounds this is a great word hmm so in soccer when the ball goes out of
bounds it goes outside the white lines right outside of the playing field okay and you can use it
on all other sports you can use it in basketball you can use it in tennis or football or anything
right so any part that is not for playing out of bounds what's our next word throw in
a throw in a throw in okay so a throw in the ball goes out of bounds
huh how do you put it back into play obviously a throw in okay so you throw in the ball that's the
only time where a soccer player will actually grab the ball with his hands all right now another
soccer term we have here off side off side off sides okay so this is a little bit difficult to
explain but just imagine you're on the soccer field and you are trying to score a goal now you
have some defenders right so the people who are trying to take the ball away and you pass the ball
to somebody who is behind the defenders oh and that person is off side exactly so you must be
at all times in the same position as the defenders or in front of them but you can't be all the way
in the back okay so is this a noun or a verb or an adjective so this is an adjective he is off side
that's his condition okay great excellent explanation mark with thank you right now we're going to look
at three different phrases for three types of kicks in soccer okay so let's take a look at this
the first one is goal kick a goal kick okay goal kick so who does the goal kick it's usually the
goalie or the goalkeeper all right who takes the goal kick okay so when the goalie kicks the ball
now what about a corner kick okay so if the team is attacking and the ball goes out of bounds
in the back area near the goal then they get a corner kick they got to kick the ball from the corner
of the field this is a great chance to score a goal isn't it exactly yes okay and our final kick a
penalty kick penalty kick penalty kick so if a player gets fouled while he is in the area near
the goal okay he gets a penalty kick so basically it's just him I think it's 13 or 15 steps away from the
goalie and he gets the opportunity to score or to kick the ball so there are no defenders or other
players in the way nobody wow another great chance to score a goal right all right well these are all
great soccer words I think we should hear them again in context so let's listen this time a little bit slower
welcome back soccer fans my name is Rick Fields and as always I am joined by my
commentating wingman Bob Copeland and we're on the brink of soccer history today
as Ecuador and Brazil are tied one one as we begin the second half of the 2022 world cup
the ref calls the players for the kickoff and here we go Ecuador quickly passes the ball to the midfield
but oh it's out of bounds that will be a throw in for Brazil at the ground who has the ball and
makes a long pass to Rubinho and the ref has called him upside no question about it he was off
side by a mile we have a goal kick for Ecuador Edison Mendez heads it to Valencia he shoots
deflected by the defender and we have a corner kick the legato takes the corner and we have a foul
oh no the die the goalkeeper has fouled the Ecuadorian player he gets a yellow card and that
will be a penalty kick this is the perfect opportunity for Ecuador to get ahead in this match
and become world champions he gets ready for the kick he shoots and he
all right so we heard these words that we were talking about in context and now some really
interesting phrases came up and this would be a good time to take a look at them in fluency builder
fluency builder well Marco there are three great phrases in this dialogue that I want to look at
the first one on the brink of we are on the brink of we're on the brink of soccer history okay
so on the brink of what exactly does that mean well why don't we hear some examples to help us
understand the meaning example one look we don't have any money we're on the brink of going bankrupt
example two the two countries are on the brink of war example three we're on the brink of an
important discovery all right so great examples on the brink of at a critical point exactly
means you're almost there right okay yeah very good and what about this next phrase that I saw
and it was really interesting no question about it no question about it no question about it all right so
this is a statement that doesn't really make much sense but what am I saying when I say oh no question
about it you're saying I agree there is no doubts you're right you're right okay well let's give
some examples I could say there's no question about it equidor is a great soccer team
there is no question about that all right so or you can say no question about it our company
makes the best products on the market okay so really useful phrase that you can use in sports
or anywhere else okay and now let's take a look at our last phrase for fluency builder and it's a
really good one to exaggerate a little bit okay by a mile by a mile by a mile so he was off
side by a mile right so the commentator is saying that he was very off side that it was really
obvious right so you can use that also in different contexts maybe not in sports okay so maybe we
can say our company is ahead of all the others by a mile right or if you tell somebody to
guess your age and they say oh I think you are 42 oh you could say you're off by a mile right
so you're really really wrong exactly yeah so it's a way of exaggerating a little bit
yes and thing is really obvious right well it's three awesome phrases and I think it will help
us to hear them one more time so let's listen to the dialogue
we'll come back soccer fans my name is Rick Fields and as always I am joined by my
commentating wingman Bob Copeland and we are in the break of soccer history today as Ecuador
and Brazil are tied one one as we begin the second half of the 2022 World Cup the ref calls the
players for the kickoff and here we go Ecuador quickly passes the ball into the midfield but oh it's
out of bow that will be a throw in for Brazil I do kind of know how's the ball and makes a long
past of a wienio and the ref is called the mobside no question about it he was off side by a mile
we have a little kick record or Edison Mendes heads of turbulence he shoots deflected by the
defender and we have a corner kick then Gallo takes the corner we have a foul oh no beat at the
goalkeeper has foued Ecuador in player he gets a yellow card and that will be a penalty kick
this is the perfect opportunity for Ecuador to get ahead in this match and become World
Champions he gets ready for the kick he shoots and he
okay well as you all may know soccer is a very popular sport especially in Latin America
that's right and your favorite team Ecuador are they are they are they really this good in soccer
win the 2022 Cup well maybe not well actually Ecuador has has improved with time but usually it's
the strong teams like Argentina in Brazil who dominate the region right but yeah hopefully we'll
make it next time okay well I have my money on Ecuador and for 2022 but yet not on Canada there's no
hope for us well Canada is doing really well now they actually beat Mexico if I'm not mistaken
oh actually that sort of yeah I kind of remember that now but there's I think there's no hope for us
to be Brazil or Argentina one of these big countries we have the next World Cup coming up so it's
really exciting and I don't know who's going to win all right well um listeners who do you think
is going to win who is the best soccer team out there right they're really good soccer teams although
some of our some countries aren't really known for their soccer like Russia you don't really
hear too much soccer from Russia really or from China is for that I wonder how popular it is in these
countries so let us know come to our website englishpod.com tell us how popular soccer is in your
country or what team you are a fan of I know many people like the European cups and their
fans of Barcelona or the Italian teams will come to the website Marco and I are always around to
answer your questions and until next time goodbye